The EvenFlow Engineers mod is designed to address one of the fundamental inconsistencies in the original game;

BuildPower

Buildpower is a value used by engineers and factories to determine how quickly they build a given item.  The only problem with it is that
it's not consistent from unit to unit.   While an engineer could build one unit using using 3 or 4 mass per second, another unit built by
the same engineer could consume dramtically different values.   This makes it difficult to predict your economy since usuage will fluctuate 
wildly from build to build.  In the same line of thought, 10 buildpower on an engineer is not the same as 10 buildpower on a factory.

To me, this seems odd, since you get situations where tiny engineers were expressing vast amounts of mass and energy and others 
where they weren't.   It seem that there would be upper limits on just how much mass and energy could be expressed by any given 
engineer, and implicitly, by factories as well.   The other inconsistency was that engineers in general, were getting to use far more 
mass and energy than factories, which is kinda backwards, and this is the main contributor to the whole engy-spam effect -- often 
leading to 'turtling' effects since building static defense was often more expedient than building units.  Again, 
to me, this seems wrong, as purpose-built factories should be more effective than any mobile builder.

Now - in practice - we weren't quite able to make the buildpower relationship between factories and engineer exactly equal.  We had a massive 
gap to close between the two - it's a LOT closer than it was - but the idea is sound - and we were able to achieve consistent economy flow 
for both factories and engineers.  The relationship between the two comes in at a ratio of about 1 to 2.2



What will this mod do to the game ?

This mod turns most of that problem on it's head.  Just by definition, when we talk about 'BuildPower', a value of 1 for a factory should have
consistency with a value of 1 for an engineer -- AND -- more importantly, it should mean something in terms of how much mass and energy
it should be able to express on any given build.  When you have that, you can then predict your economic usage by your build power knowing
that when a factory or engineer is building, it will impact your economy to a specific degree.   For example - your engineer has 5 buildpower,
you should expect him to use a consistent amount of mass and/or energy whenever he's building or assisting.  You should expect likewise 
from your factories.

This doesn't mean that everything an engineer builds will always consume the same, it's just an upper limit.  This allows the individual 
unit blueprints to still have more energy or mass intensive values, but the upper limit will be predictable.  When you apply this to 
factories, the impact and the value is clear -- now you can easily predict just how many factories, of what tier, you can run with a 
given amount of economy.

As you might expect, a T3 factory has considerably more buildpower than any mobile engineer (even SACU) and as such, the
impact of assisting by engineers is greatly reduced.  It's still possible, but not the best use of an engineer.  The factory, not the 
engineer, becomes the focal point of your construction efforts - not only is it more efficient - but it greatly reduces the value of 
spamming engineers.


What to expect ?

Firstly, you'll be able to build a lot more units from factories without resorting to assisting, and you'll be able to predict your economy 
by the number of factories you have.  You won't need quite as many factories either.  While you can still assist your factories, you'll 
have to build far more engineers to get the same effect.  In fact, it's more cost effective to build another factory rather than assisting
an existing one.

Secondly, if you want to build a lot of static defenses and other structures, you'll need more engineers that you did before to do it
in the same time.  The cost hasn't changed, just the amount of time it takes - and you can easily predict just how much your economy
will be impacted when you add engineers to a task.

Personally, I like the results a great deal.  It brings mobility back to the forefront of the game, and for new players, it makes
economic management more predictable -- always a good thing for any player new to the game.


Here's the short form;

For engineers and subcommanders;

- expect an engineer to use 1 point of mass OR 10 units of energy for each point he has of build power.

	T1 Engy - 5 buildpower - will use upto 5 mass or 50 energy per tick when building.
	T2 Engy - 10 buildpower - will use upto 10 mass or 100 energy per tick
	T3 Engy - 15 buildpower - will use upto 15 mass or 150 energy per tick
	Subcommander - 60 buildpower before upgrade - will use upto 60 mass or 600 energy per tick
	

For factories;

- The energy maximum scales up with tier as follows;

	T1 - the energy ratio is 20:1 
	T2 - the energy ratio is 30:1
	T3 - the energy ratio is 45:1

- With this mod the rates are as follows;

	T1 factory uses upto 8 mass or 160 energy per tick (based upon 40 build power)
	T2 factory uses upto 14 mass or 420 energy per tick (based upon 70 build power)
	T3 factory uses upto 20 mass or 900 energy per tick (based upon 100 build power)
	Quantum Gates uses same as a T3 factory 